---
title: 'Stuff to do in New Orleans'
subtitle: 'A listing and map of recommended fun'
date: 2020-02-02 00:00:00
featured_image: /images/projects/nola/manu.jpg
---

Here’s a list of some stuff to do while you're visiting New Orleans, mostly
revolving around eating, drinking, and walking around the city. Just
a quick reminder, crime is a thing in New Orleans. I try to avoid walking
around alone at night in dark or desolate places. The French Quarter is
generally safe between Bourbon Street and the Mississippi River, and in
other neighborhoods just keep an eye out.

[Nola.com](https://www.nola.com) almost always has an article about new
restaurants around the city; see
[Eat/Drink section](https://www.nola.com/entertainment_life/eat-drink/).

Check the [WWOZ Livewire](https://www.wwoz.org/calendar/livewire-music) for
live music show times and locations for a given day.

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/embed?mid=1LPHLhYEl0rcuAHLLhjHtOSYJZOast7RU" width="640" height="480"></iframe>

**#1 Recommendation** - If you're in town on a Friday, R Bar in the Marigny has
free Cajun food. Depending on the time of year its jambalaya, shrimp, or
crawfish. I'm a huge fan. Good food, great bar. It's near Frenchmen St.

### Coffee
- **French Truck** - LGD. This is a very popular stop for hot and iced coffee.
- **Mammoth Espresso** - CBD. Serious coffee and tea done very well.
- **Lovage** - CBD. This is inside the Ace Hotel so its as hip as it gets.
- **Fairgrinds** - Fairgounds. On Esplanade near the Fairgrounds. A beautiful area
  with big trees and there's an upstairs balcony. Great spot to get some
  sun and watch the time pass. There’s also a wine shop (Swirl) and an
  excellent mediterranean restaurant (1000 Figs) next door.
-- **Hey! Coffee** - 7th Ward. This is a local roaster with a wide reach and
  really good coffee. It's located on the Lafitte Greenway. It has recently
  become my go-to for beans or if I want to sit in the sun while I sip
  my coffee.

### Cocktails & Wine
- **Bar Tonique** - FQ. ~$10 per drink and they’re good. Also just a fun spot to hang out with a group.
- **Bacchanal** - Bywater. Wine bar with jazzish live music usually. It's far from downtown but worth the trip. If you go way out there, check out some other stuff around the Bywater. 
- **Delachaise** - Garden District. Another wine bar uptown with tasty food. It may sound strange but its not uncommon to go for wine and fries. They do both well.
- **Sazerac Bar** - Roosevelt Hotel, CBD. Classic cocktails. $20+ per drink

### Dives and local bars
More touristy
- Black penny - FQ. Large beer list, good space to hang with a group.
- Chart Room - FQ on Chartres. Cash only. Cheapest beers in the Quarter.
  This place usually has a great mix of weirdos, tourists, and locals. 

More local
- Rusty nail - Warehouse District.
- R Bar - Marigny.
- Bud rips - Bywater.
- Markeys - Bywater.
- J&J's - Bywater.
- BJ's - Bywater.
- Twelve Mile Limit - Mid City.
- Parasol’s - Irish Channel.

### Food
This list can be endless so these are just a few places. Definitely ask me if you want more suggestions

- Atchafalaya - This might be Katie and my favorite restaurant. It's pricey but really really good. And it's outside of the more traveled area so you’ll get to see a different side of the city. Excellent drinks, excellent seafood.
- Shaya or Saba - Israeli food by Chef Alon Shaya. It's on the fancy side but completely approachable. In my opinion, it's best to go here when you have time to stay a while and enjoy the multiple courses. Probably tied with Atchafalaya for my favorite restaurant.
- Peche - Solid seafood. Family style is the move here.
- Cochon - Same owners as Peche and Butcher. This food is heavier and mostly pork. Also pricey. Don't go here if you plan on doing anything after. Do go here if you want to food coma.
- Petite Amelie for lunch. Won't blow you away but its a pretty nice place to hang out. Sandwiches and stuff.
- Croissant d'Or - Just before leaving New Orleans I was really into this place. It's a fun spot for a lazy breakfast. Buttery croissants. It's closed on Tuesdays.
- Butcher for lunch sandwiches. ~$15 per sandwich and real tasty
- St James Cheese Co for lunch. ~$15 per plate. Good food and relatively quick for a sit down restaurant.  There’s a location in the Warehouse district and another one uptown on Prytania St

Any of the John Besh restaurants:
- Domenica
- Luke
- Shaya
- Willa jean
Domenica and Luke have awesome happy hours from 4-6pm. Luke has 75 cent oysters and they are excellent. Domenica has half off pizza which is also a great deal. All of these places have first come first serve bar areas which serve the full menu. If you can't get a table, it's not impossible to sneak into the bar with a small group. 

### Music

Frenchmen st
- Apple Barrel
- Spotted cat
- Bamboulas
- Maison
- Frenchmen Street Art Market

St Claude (~10 minute walk from frenchmen st)
- Karaoke at Kajun’s
- Hi Ho Lounge
- Siberia

Uptown
- Maple Leaf
- Gasa Gasa
- Circle Bar

### Other stuff to do and see:
- A picnic at The Fly
- Walk around the Garden District. If its not long enough, walk all the way into the French Quarter!
- Audubon Park
- Piazza di Italia. It's hit or miss but when it is turned on (there are neon lights all over this fountain) it's real cool.
- Bayou St. John is great to just hang out. Get food to go and snag a spot on the Cabrini bridge.
- Grab a drink and go for a walk because you can. 
